# Masters_degree
For my Master's degree: "Analiza podatności i automatyzacja bezpieczeństwa w klastrach Kubernetes"/"Vulnerability analysis and security automation in Kubernetes clusters". Mainly to save all yaml files for Kubernetes deployments. Maybe for IaaC.

Everything apart from deploying VMS will be automated by ansible or by bash scripts or in kustomisation.yaml file.

### Description:
- Part 1. Plan is to deploy Kubernetes cluster and set a lot of security mechanisms described below.
- Part 2. Compare Kubernetes security features/capabilities with DockerSwarm(I know, not very ambicious:) ) security features/capabilities.

(In my master work I won't take into account the security settings of deployed application inside the cluster, only setting of cluster(networking, access, privileges, ...) and host(access from pods to host layer))
## Tasks
- [x] deploy 4 hosts for k8s cluster
- [x] deploy k8s cluster
- [x] deploy application and generate traffic
- [x] configure network policy(done for elasticsearch)
- [x] configure Pod Security Admission
- [x] configure RBAC
- [x] scan k8s cluster(misconfiguration - kube-bench, vulnerabilities - kube-hunter)
- [ ] harden cluster hosts according to best practices
- [ ] prepare network monitoring
- [ ] prepare attacks at cluster for other mechanism than Falco
- [x] prepare auto-defense mechanisms based on Falco
- [ ] compare k8s with other container orchestrator

### Deploy hosts
For k8s cluster there will be 4 VMs with [Ubuntu 20.04.04 LTS](https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop/thank-you?version=22.04.4&architecture=amd64) created on VirtualBox:
- 1 master
  - mgr-k8s-master-01(1 vCPU, 8GB RAM)
- 3 workers
  - mgr-k8s-worker-01(1 vCPU, 8GB RAM)
  - mgr-k8s-worker-02(1 vCPU, 8GB RAM)
  - mgr-k8s-worker-03(1 vCPU, 8GB RAM)

For monitoring and managing purposes will be deployed separate, not hardened, VM:
- manage-and-monitor(1 vCPU, 8GB RAM)

Hosts configuration:
- [X] set nat network
- [X] ssh configs for ansible
- [x] set guest configurations
- [X] set static ip
- [x] add 100GB drive per worker

After each task VMs will be snapshoted to preserve working configuration states, also will ba backed up on another disc.
### Deploy Kubernetes 1.28.6
This version of Kubernetes is chosen due to compatibility with Kubespray.

Kubernetes will be deployed by [Kubespray v2.24.1](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubespray/tree/v2.24.1).

### Cluster hardening
Hardening of Kubernetes cluster is done in compliance with CIS standards, which are ensured during creating cluster by Kubespray [with this additional options](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubespray/blob/v2.24.1/docs/hardening.md).

### Host hardening
Hardening of Ubuntu 20.04.4 LTS is done in compliance with CIS standards. It is done by Ubuntu Pro plugin which check and set proper configuration of host.
Additional hardening need to be done regarding access from pods to host machine.

### Deploy some applications
 - Flask
 - ElasticSearch
 - PostgreSQL

### Security Policy
 - Network Policies
 - PodSecurityAdmission
 - RBAC

### Deploy threat monitoring
 - Falco

### Attacks
For Falco
 - generated by Falco Event-generator
 - ncat command
 - unknown binary drop and executed on container

For Other mechanism
 - ?

### Auto-defense mechanisms
 - send alerts to Discord
 - delete attacked Pod with ArgoEvents and ArgoWorkflow


